[DOCS-12546] RUM view side panel updates (#33222)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/explorer/events.md

## Overview

The Real User Monitoring (RUM) Explorer displays individual events in a side panel. To open the event side panel in the [RUM Explorer][1], click on a table row in the **List** visualization type.

Use the side panel header to view contextual information about your users (environment, country) and event-specific details like view path and loading type. For Synthetic test runs, click the test ID to view the result.

> The distribution visualization at the top helps you understand whether the current view is close to the median or is an outlier. Use the metric dropdown to switch between {{< tooltip text="Loading Time" tooltip="Time until the page is ready and no network request or DOM mutation is happening. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#all-performance-telemetry'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="Time To First Byte" tooltip="Time elapsed until the first byte of the view has been received. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#all-performance-telemetry'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="FCP" tooltip="First Contentful Paint: Time when the browser first renders any text, image, or SVG. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="LCP" tooltip="Largest Contentful Paint: Time when the largest DOM object in the viewport is rendered. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="CLS" tooltip="Cumulative Layout Shift: Quantifies unexpected page movement due to dynamically loaded content. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}, and {{< tooltip text="INP" tooltip="Interaction to Next Paint: Longest duration between a user's interaction and the next paint. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}. Adjust the time range to view data by day, week, or month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The distribution visualization at the top helps you understand whether the current view is close to the median or is an outlier. Use the dropdown to switch between {{< tooltip text="Loading Time" tooltip="Time until the page is ready and no network request or DOM mutation is happening. Mobile apps have a different, manually reported loading time. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#all-performance-telemetry'>Learn more</a>" >}}, or web and mobile vitals such as {{< tooltip text="Time To First Byte" tooltip="Time elapsed until the first byte of the view has been received. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#all-performance-telemetry'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="FCP" tooltip="First Contentful Paint: Time when the browser first renders any text, image, or SVG. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="LCP" tooltip="Largest Contentful Paint: Time when the largest DOM object in the viewport is rendered. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="CLS" tooltip="Cumulative Layout Shift: Quantifies unexpected page movement due to dynamically loaded content. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}, {{< tooltip text="INP" tooltip="Interaction to Next Paint: Longest duration between a user's interaction and the next paint. <a href='/real_user_monitoring/application_monitoring/browser/monitoring_page_performance/#event-timings-and-core-web-vitals'>Learn more</a>" >}}, Refresh Rate, and Memory Average. Adjust the time range to view data by day, week, or month.
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/events/side-panel-overview-2.png" alt="RUM Explorer side panel showing the distribution visualization, waterfall timeline, and filter options" width="100%" >}}

Click any tab to view its corresponding details and investigate specific aspects of the event. See [Additional tabs](#additional-tabs) for a full list.

## Waterfall tab

> The **Waterfall** tab displays an interactive timeline of the events associated with this view. Key performance markers are overlayed, including [Core Web Vitals][3] or mobile timings, with pass or fail indicators.

Author: yes, they all can. thanks!

- **By attribute**: Use the filter buttons above the waterfall. Click a filter to access additional options like resource URL, action name, error message, and more.
- **By time range**: Drag the time selectors in the minimap, or expand the left sidebar and click a timing to filter to events before that point.

The left sidebar reveals key timings, including custom timings from the [addTiming API][4].

### Inspecting events

Hover over any event in the waterfall to see its timestamp, duration, and contributing factors (scripts, style/layout, or other processing). Hover over a Core Web Vital to view its definition, threshold, and how it compares to your p75.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/events/specific-times-1.png" alt="Loading Time popover showing performance details, threshold indicators, and comparison to p75 performance" width="100%" >}}

### Connected telemetry

Click on events in the waterfall to access related data:

- **Resources**: View connected backend traces.
- **Long Animation Frames**: Access associated profiles for performance analysis.

## Additional tabs

Use the other tabs to explore related data:

> | Tab | Description |

Author: ooh yes it does - implemented. thanks!
